Right now, we are seeing
smoke coming out there.
We're looking at
these live pictures of Gaza City.
We're seeing smoke
coming out of Gaza City at this moment.
What do you believe
could be happening right now
as we are talking about this?
We've seen already
quite a few air strikes
occurring in Israel, throughout Gaza,
but the vast concentration of them
are in Gaza City.
What do you think is happening tonight?
Okay, so that's one thing
you're seeing right now.
That's a result of direct
15 and 35 Israeli Air Force
selective fire
there, special operations, Air Force
commandos, a unit called Shell,
very elite Tier one asset.
It's called the Kingfisher Unit.
And they are on the ground
helping to put those missiles
into specific Hamas buildings
to completely dismantle
Hamas's infrastructure.
So that immobilizes them completely.
That's what the smoke is from
the other thing.
The reason
why this is happening at night,
it allows
clandestine operations
to be conducted within Gaza,
using deception
for operatives to be able to get inside
they're tapping
cell phones,
putting down recording devices.
So Israel is setting an entire pre
raid operation here for two things.
One, for one
that counteroffensive starts
and then to
and the most important thing for us
the able to get those hostages back.
Let's take a listen here.
You can hear those bombs going off
in the background in Gaza City.
We don't always hear
or see
at this time
if you're on the ground right now.
But you can.
Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.
Can you even tell based on listening
to that, the force
the magnitude of what they are?
Yeah.
I mean, look, there's
going to be a lot of destruction.
A lot of people are going to get killed
and hurt.
It's happening on the Israeli side.
The Palestinians will make something
really clear.
Israel has no issue
with the Palestinian people.
In fact, the Palestinian people
ideally would want to be able
to cross the southern border of Gaza
to get into Egypt.
But they can't.
Hamas is keeping them closed in there.
And like a like a whatsername said.
That is a problem
if they're starting to be used
as human shields.
And it creates
immense levels of risk to the Palestinian
And so we do our best to follow
international law.
When we look at the the before
and after of some of these spaces,
it looks like
just an enormous amount of rubble.
Do you see a tactical strategy in the
you know, the flattening
of some of these buildings?
Absolutely. All of that.
Absolutely, yeah.
So the flattening of the structures,
the artillery pieces
that are going in there,
they're starting to open up lanes,
if you will,
for this massive counteroffensive
that's being prepared.
The other thing
that we're doing
is we're tiring out Hamas.
We're treating this as what we call
like a pressure cooker.
And we've got a civil affairs.
And that pressure cooker
is designed to try and slow things down
so that we can collect intelligence
and so that we can tire out
this terror group.
And a tired terrorist
is a better terrorist.
Who's holding
innocent women and children.
So taking our time and doing the best
we can
to collect info, try and slow this thing
down, opening up lanes
for the Givati Brigade,
which is equivalent to the US Marines.
They're the ones who are in charge of the
of the Southern Command,
and they're
the ones who have been
into Gaza previously
in the last war in Gaza.
And so those were they're opening up,
parting ways, if you will,
so that the Israelis
will be able to move in there
as safely as possible
to get to the terrorists and
is it safe to describe
what we are seeing tonight
and hearing tonight
in in the skies over Gaza
as a prelude potentially
to a ground invasion?
Well well,
I can tell you
that a ground invasion is is is imminent
when it's going to happen.
I couldn't tell you.
I'm not I'm
not I'm not going to speculate.
I don't want to give it
any information that might
be inaccurate.
But the fact that 300,000 reservists
have been mobilized,
the fact that the Givati Brigade
is down there,
the fact that the share
that the Israeli SEALs
are already operating on that coast,
you can
bet that they're preparing
for the inevitability
of having to go in there.
And the unfortunate part,
like Anderson said
very gently and eloquently.
It's going to be vicious.
You can hear there.
You can hear the missile fire
you can hear that hitting the rubble.
It's going to be
there's going to be
a lot of violence of action.
There will be a lot of death and trauma
but we believe there could be over
150 hostages in there.
So we're
looking at two multiple assaults.
And, Aaron,
I just want to emphasize for our viewers,
if you've been joining us tonight, leave,
we do not always hear bombardment
at this hour of this strength,
this seems to be
there's intense
fighting that's happening right now.
Those are the
I hear artillery pieces
that are going off.
Again, that's to soften the
and open up the runways for
for those infantry units that
that will eventually go in.
I hear the call to prayer right now also.
And
the other thing we're hearing
is that selective missile fire.
There's potentially
Israelis inside Gaza right now.
These are special operations forces.
They're doing everything
they can to get intelligence
to prepare for the counteroffensive.
And unfortunately, this is the price
that Israelis pay and that Palestinians.
Piers, let's listen for just a moment
As you just said,
this is called to prayer
or
you're listening and watching.
These are images of Gaza City
as the bombs light up the night sky.
There,
we're hearing
what sounds like a call to prayer,
even some sirens in a few moments ago
as the bombs are dropping right now.
This is the population center of Gaza.
About almost 600,000 people live here
and the intensity of the bombardment
seems to have picked up
just in the last couple of minutes.
As we've been
speaking to you
and watching these images.
That sign, according to my guest
here, Aaron Cohen,
that potentially this is picking up.
And as he says, as you've said, Aaron,
perhaps a sign that this
ground invasion
could be imminent,
as is
the Israeli defense
forces are moving more aggressively,
it seems, tonight
to prepare to soften
this ground for the
some 300,000 troops who are amassed
along the border. Get ready to go in.
That's right.
And
Gaza is an incredibly densely
populated area.
Hamas has had years to keep
building it up.
This is one of the most dangerous
places on earth.
I just want to make it really clear,
the Israelis,
as an IDF soldier,
as a veteran of the IDF,
we don't have an issue
with the Palestinians
and we want to do what
we can to get Hamas away from them.
And so we're going to use
as much selectivity.
Is the difference
with the footage that you are showing
is that we're not going to
indiscriminately hurt anybody.
However, lines have been crossed
and decisions have been made.
Leadership will roll.
Intelligence heads will be gone.
We don't we're not focusing on that
right now.
But this is
the most significant hostage
siege in the history of modern warfare.
Let's talk about that for a second.
Again, I mean, the hostages, if
is it necessary for there to be surgical
operation and to try to find and free
those hostages prior to any kind of war,
a large scale ground invasion
of the idea?
Yes, it is.
It is
it is critical to continue to soften
as much of the Hamas infrastructure
within Khan Younis within Rafah
within Gaza City
and all of the small villages in between
in order to reduce risk to those larger
infantry units
they're going to move into Gaza
in order to minimize
getting killed.
Urban warfare is incredibly complex.
This is essentially a symmetrical
or 90 degree angle fighting.
And so bringing down those buildings
means less walls for
terrorists to hide behind.